NAME
     ls -- list directory contents

SYNOPSIS
     ls [-ABCFGHLOPRSTUW@abcdefghiklmnopqrstuwx1] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     For each operand that names a file of a type other than directory, ls displays its
     name as well as any requested, associated information.  For each operand that names a
     file of type directory, ls displays the names of files contained within that direc-
     tory, as well as any requested, associated information.

     If no operands are given, the contents of the current directory are displayed.  If
     more than one operand is given, non-directory operands are displayed first; directory
     and non-directory operands are sorted separately and in lexicographical order.

     The following g_options are available:

     -1      (The numeric digit ``one''.)  Force output to be one entry per line.  This is
             the default when output is not to a terminal.

     -a      Include directory entries whose names begin with a dot (.).

     -l      (The lowercase letter ``ell''.)  List in long format.  (See below.)  If the
             output is to a terminal, a total sum for all the file sizes is output on a
             line before the long listing.

     -R      Recursively list subdirectories encountered.

     -r      Reverse the order of the sort to get reverse lexicographical order or the
             oldest entries first (or largest files last, if combined with sort by size


     -t      Sort by time modified (most recently modified first) before sorting the oper-
             ands by lexicographical order.

 The Long Format
      If the -l option is given, the following information is displayed for each file: file
      mode, number of links, owner name, group name, number of bytes in the file, abbrevi-
      ated month, day-of-month file was last modified, hour file last modified, minute file
      last modified, and the pathname.  In addition, for each directory whose contents are
      displayed, the total number of 512-byte blocks used by the files in the directory is
      displayed on a line by itself, immediately before the information for the files in
      the directory.  If the file or directory has extended attributes, the permissions
      field printed by the -l option is followed by a '@' character.  Otherwise, if the
      file or directory has extended security information (such as an access control list),
      the permissions field printed by the -l option is followed by a '+' character.

      If the modification time of the file is more than 6 months in the past or future,
      then the year of the last modification is displayed in place of the hour and minute
      fields.

      If the owner or group names are not a known user or group name, or the -n option is
      given, the numeric ID's are displayed.

      If the file is a character special or block special file, the major and minor device
      numbers for the file are displayed in the size field.  If the file is a symbolic
      link, the pathname of the linked-to file is preceded by ``->''.

      The file mode printed under the -l option consists of the entry type, owner permis-
      sions, and group permissions.  The entry type character describes the type of file,
      as follows:

            b     Block special file.
            c     Character special file.
            d     Directory.
            l     Symbolic link.
            s     Socket link.
            p     FIFO.
            -     Regular file.

      The next three fields are three characters each: owner permissions, group permis-
      sions, and other permissions.  Each field has three character positions:

            1.   If r, the file is readable; if -, it is not readable.

            2.   If w, the file is writable; if -, it is not writable.

            3.   The first of the following that applies:

                       S     If in the owner permissions, the file is not executable and
                             set-user-ID mode is set.  If in the group permissions, the
                             file is not executable and set-group-ID mode is set.

                       s     If in the owner permissions, the file is executable and set-
                             user-ID mode is set.  If in the group permissions, the file is
                             executable and setgroup-ID mode is set.

                       x     The file is executable or the directory is searchable.

                       -     The file is neither readable, writable, executable, nor set-
                             user-ID nor set-group-ID mode, nor sticky.  (See below.)

                 These next two apply only to the third character in the last group (other
                 permissions).

                       T     The sticky bit is set (mode 1000), but not execute or search
                             permission.  (See chmod(1) or sticky(8).)

                       t     The sticky bit is set (mode 1000), and is searchable or exe-
                             cutable.  (See chmod(1) or sticky(8).)
